# Android-Chess
The complete project I am submitting is a mobile Android chess application that features both a single-player and multi-player functionality. The single-player is the main aspect of the app as it features a simple AI that uses a Minimax algorithm. The multi-player function works through a Google Firebase real-time database that can create and destroy game boards depending on when players start and leave. The app itself follows a model view controller architecture within Android Studio that allows for the app to use states to determine the player’s next move. It uses visuals to tell the player which state it is in, and where they currently stand in the game as it has a piece counter.
The single-player follows a simple Minimax algorithm that will provide the next best move for the AI. Each piece is given a value based on its worth that will make sure the AI will always protect its king without wasting or making unnecessary sacrifices. The algorithm is limited to only a recursive depth of four to maintain speed as it unfortunately has a long search time. The reason for the long search times is due to the mass amounts of deep copies that need to be made for each level of recursion. This was because of how the app was originally designed, as it began as a strictly multi-player chess app. When the AI begins its turn, it creates a deep copy of game pieces for every possible move which grows very quickly and slows down the AI agent significantly. The speed was also an issue for the rule of check, which must determine if the player or enemy has their king exposed and must cover that move. For the app, I just allowed for the player to make sure their king is protected, as the Minimax algorithm does it automatically due to the need to maintain its score. 
The multi-player has a bit more intricate search and destroy algorithm that was implemented to find an available game board to join, or to create a new board. It searches through the current game boards checking their codes, letting the search agent know if it is a joinable board. While iterating through the current boards, the agent will keep track of the lowest value board number that may not exist and can be used to create a new board if it is required. The coding system allows for a player to let an agent or another player know if a move has been made or if a board has been shut down. Whenever a player is notified of a new change to their saved board, they will know the other player has made a move. There is currently a bug with the multiplayer function that crashes the game if the player has joined a multiplayer game, then backs out and joins a single player game, when the board on the server is destroyed the app will crash. This should not be an issue when it comes to testing the single player function on its own. 
One issue I found was when I attempted to create a minimax algorithm was the original attempt to make it an alpha beta pruning minimax search. When this algorithm as implemented it would only move the first piece in the list as it would automatically remove the search of the rest of the tree. The bug became easy to fix when I came to the realization that the alpha-beta pruning requires ordered scores which the search will not be able to use. Once the algorithm removed the extra pruning, the algorithm worked and would find the best move within the given depth. 

